# High-Level-Synthesis

Highly Configurable Decentralized Massive MIMO Detector Design using High-Level Synthesis

Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) increases the capacity of a radio link by exploiting multipath propagation by using multiple transmitting and receiving antennas. It is becoming increasingly common as part of wireless communications standards, including Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), Evolved High Speed Packet Access (HSPA+), and Long-Term Evolution (LTE). In Fifth-Generation (5G) wireless systems, the short wavelengths result in smaller antenna dimensions, and the base station equipped with hundreds of antenna elements that serve tens of user equipment simultaneously in the same frequency band leads to MIMO as massive which provides significantly higher spectral efficiency and link reliability than traditional, small-scale MIMO systems. However, the price for the enhanced spectral efficiency is increased signal processing complexity which grows exponentially with modulation alphabets and antennas in the system with optimal Maximum Likelihood (ML) algorithms. In the MIMO uplink phase, data at the base station are recovered with less complexity using near-optimal linear equalizers, such as Zero-Forcing (ZF) or Minimum Mean Square Error (MMSE). However, These equalization schemes typically rely on centralized processing which results in excessive computational complexity and interconnects bandwidth between the baseband processing unit and the Radio Frequency (RF) chains. Equalizers based on a decentralized architecture can mitigate these complexity and bandwidth bottlenecks.

It has been common practice to design microelectronic systems using Hardware Description Language (HDL), such as Very High-Speed Integrated Circuit Hardware Description Language (VHDL) or Verilog. Maintaining HDL design productivity becomes more challenging as design continues to get larger and more complex. With an existing HDL design, portability may also not be possible, and writing another HDL code causes longer development times. In the case of massive MIMO, the uplink detection algorithms based on centralized processing tend to be complex with operations, such as multiplications, divisions, and inversions of large matrices due to the increased number of antennas at the base station and leads to enormous interconnect data rates. Distributed architectures based on iterative methods can reduce computational complexity, integrate with existing interconnect standards, and are easily configurable. To reconfigure the system, The deployment of the base station requires significant architecture changes, which is time-consuming and less portable due to the low-level characteristics of the widely used HDL. The High-Level Synthesis (HLS) allows the implementation of a complex system from a higher level of abstraction, which lowers the barrier between hardware design and software design. This yields shorter development times, portability, and lower costs to design a system.

In this work, a decentralized massive MIMO detector based on the Gauss-Seidel (GS) binary tree structure has been developed in synthesizable C code in the Xilinx Vivado HLS (v2020.1). The design is configurable in terms of the number of antennas, the number of users, and the size of the cluster. The Binary Synthesis (BS) architecture as shown in Figure (bs_architecture.pdf) has been implemented in a single Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA). In order to distribute computational effort and take advantage of reduced Input/Output (I/O) bandwidth, elements of the binary architecture will be implemented later on in different FPGAs. The HLS design provides high-design space exploration supporting numerous optimization approaches. For several MIMO system configurations, the design can be targeted to different FPGAs with the design specifications. The HLS code has been written in C and synthesized to Register-Transfer Level (RTL). A testbench has also been written in C for the design verification. The fixed-point data types are used to optimize hardware efficiency.

The following tasks have been completed:

* The detection algorithm has been programmed in C-code. An RTL (VHDL/Verilog/SystemC) followed by a netlist has been generated by synthesizing the C-code using High-Level Synthesis in the Vivado HLS suite.
* A testbench in C-code has been built to provide MIMO uplink received data.
* The testbench has been expanded with the C model of the massive MIMO detector based on the Gauss-Seidel binary tree structure. It has also been made self-checking. It checks if the output of the software model and the synthesized C-code are identical.
* The design has been optimized to reduce the latency using different HLS directives and arbitrary precision fixed-point data types. The systolic array architectures have been appiled for parallel operation. The design can easily be configured in the number of antennas, the number of users, and the cluster size.
